# Video Game Sales Analysis
## by Yueh-Han Chen
# Dataset Overview
This dataset contains a list of video games with sales greater than 100,000 copies. It was generated by a scrape of vgchartz.com. (https://www.kaggle.com/gregorut/videogamesales)

# Research Question:
1. What are top 5 genres of high global sales?
2. What are top 5 Publisher of high global sales?
3. What are top 5 Platform of high global sales?
4. Which 5 year of range from 1980 - 2020 has the highest global sales?
5. What is the relationship between sales numbers in 4 different main regions from 1980 - 2020?
6. What is the relationship between Top 5 Platforms and years ?
7. Among "Gerne", "Publisher", "year", and "Platform", which variable affected high global sales the most?

### Assessment:

**Quality issues**
- Missing values in 'Year', 'Publisher'
- 6761 rows have wrong Global_Sales numbers

### Exploratory Data Analysis Explanation:

For the 7. Among "Gerne", "Publisher", "year", and "Platform", which variable affected high global sales the most?
I used the **Mutiple Linear regression** to analyze the relationship between independent variables and dependent variable(Global sales), by the coefficient correlation numbers.

# Summary of Findings

> Limitation 1 : In this dataset, among top 5 Platforms, there are 4 platforms that were only popular before 2002. So, if you want to use the analysis, which is related to top 5 Platforms, to make decision in the near future, those would be 80% degree outdated.

> Limitation 2 : This dataset does not include the data from China, since China's video games market is as big as or even bigger than the US's market. Therefore, this analysis should not be used to help make decision on the China's market. 

#### Research Question 1: What are top 5 genres of high global sales?

The top 5 genres by average high sales is 'Sports', 'Racing', 'Role-Playing', 'Shooter', 'Platform', and the top 1 Platform is twice as big as Sports' sales numbers.

#### Research Question 2: What are top 5 Publisher of high global sales?

Top 5 genres by average high sales is 'Imagic', 'Microsoft Game Studios',
       'Sony Computer Entertainment Europe', 'RedOctane', 'Nintendo'. Besides, Nintendo is twice as much as Microsoft Game Studios from 1980 to 2020
       
#### Research Question 3: What are top 5 Platform of high global sales?

Top 5 genres by average high sales is 'PS4', 'SNES', 'GEN', 'NES', 'GB'. GB and NES are nearly 2.65 millions, which is almost 3 times as many as GEN.

#### Research Question 4: Which 5 year of range from 1980 - 2020 has the highest global sales?

Global console video games sold the most during 1984 to 1992, around 3 millions at average, which is almost 3 times as many as the sales number in 2017.

#### Research Question 5: What is the relationship between sales numbers in 4 different main regions from 1980 - 2020?

North America have been sold more than most of the countries since 1980, but in the recent decade, every regions has been going down to near 0.25 millions at average due to the rising of mobile games.

#### Research Question 6: What is the relationship between Top 5 Platforms and years ?

There are 4 of top 5 platforms with high sales number happened before 2002, only one in the Top 5 (PS4), was popular after 2012. 

#### Research Question 7: Among "Gerne", "Publisher", "year", and "Platform", which variable affected high global sales the most?

Among Top 5 in platforms, publishers, and genres, Top 5 Publishers affects the global sales numbers the most, which is 6 times as many as Top 5 genres and 30% higher than Top 5 Platforms.
